RAPPORT is a tool for generating random sets of point, line, and polygon structures
for testing geometric algorithms and related geometric applications. The original
version was created in 2003, and has been updated with this version in 2020, primarily
adding the ability to output resulting data files in a format that can be read and 
processed by the Draw3D application. At this point there are certainly more sophicticated
and robust geometric data generators available; however, RAPPORt does provide for
generation of some interesting data classes.

1.	Main Menu
1.1. New - Provides options for generating random objects
1.2. Open - Opens a data file in Rapport format for previously generated objects
1.3. Exit - Exits the applicaiton; the upper right corner x also causes exit
 
2.	New Menu
2.0. Generic Options for New Selection Menus
	Generation Control:
		Generations: Target number of objects to be generated
		Max. attempts: Maximum number of generation attempts for some uncertain generations
		Random seed1: Default seed for the generation
		Random seed2: Second default seed for the generation
		Debug level: 1 - No debug information; 2 - Some debug information; 3 - More detailed information
		Keep Seeds check box: Selects retaining the random sees across multiple invocations of this selection panel
		Color: For polygon generations, requests color fill
	Display Parameters:
		Display check box: Requests display of generated data
		Axes check box: Requests display of data axes
		Unit square: Requests data display in a unit square; many of the generations within the unit square
		Step: Not in current use
		Pause: Not in current use
		FrameSize (Pixels): Size of the data display frame (square)
		Logical Dimension: Scaling factor for data display
		Origin Lower Left: Places (0,0) near the lower left corner of the frame
		Origin Center: Places (0,0) at the center of the displayed frame

2.1. Point Generation Parameters
		Distribution Options: Uniform, Bivariate Normal, Non-statinary Poisson (MMPP)
		Number of points to be generated
		Number of clusters for normal and Poisson generations
		Standard deviation for normal generations
		Density for Poisson generations

2.2. Line Generation Parameters
		Distribution Options: Uniform, Bivariate Normal, Non-statinary Poisson (MMPP)
		Number of lines to be generated
		Number of clusters for normal and Poisson generations
		Standard deviation for normal generations
		Density for Poisson generations

2.3. PolyLine Generation Parameters
		Rotate check box: Rotate thru random angle 0 to 2PI and fit to unit square
		Smooth1 check box: Vertices are ordered by x-coordinate and each two consecutive
			y-coordinates are divided by the smooth parameter to yield a smoothed y-value
		Smooth2 check box:
		X-Uniform: generate vertex x-coordinates with uniform distribution
		Y-Uniform: generate vertex y-coordinates with uniform distribution
		X-Normal: generate vertex x-coordinates with normal distribution
		Y-Normal: generate vertex y-coordinates with normal distribution
		X-Exponential: generate vertex x-coordinates with exponential distribution
		Y-Exponential: generate vertex y-coordinates with exponential distribution
		X-MMPP: generate vertex x-coordinates with non-stationary Poisson MMPP distribution
		Y-MMPP: generate vertex y-coordinates with non-stationary Poisson MMPP distribution
		Maximum number of vertices per polyline to be generated. PolyLine selects a number
			between 4 and this number (inclusive) as the number of vertices to generate.
		Smooth parameter for Smooth1
		Standard deviation for normal generations
		Density for Poisson generations

2.4. Poisson-Line-Field Generation Parameters
		Number of lines to be generated to create the field
	
2.5. Random-Walk Generation Parameters
		Rand. y incr. - Generate next point as random increment to the y coordinate.
			X-coordinate increment is fixed to (max. x - min. x) / (number of points)
		Rand. x and y - Generate next point as random values for x and y in ranges
			min.x to max.x and min.y to max.y
		MMPP x and y - Generate next point x and y coordinates with non-stationary Poisson MMPP method
		X-Uniform button - Use uniform method for random x generation, except for MMPP option
		Y-Uniform button - Use uniform method for random y generation, except for MMPP option
		X-Normal button - Use normal method for random x generation, except for MMPP option
		Y-Normal button - Use normal method for random y generation, except for MMPP option
		X-Exponential button - Use exponential method for random x generation, except for MMPP option
		Y-Exponential button - Use exponential method for random y generation, except for MMPP option
		Number of walk points to be generated
		Minimum X coordinate value
		Maximum X coordinate value
		Minimum Y coordinate value
		Maximum Y coordinate value
		Standard deviation for use with normal method only
		 
2.6. Shapes
	Polygon-Random-Points Generation Parameters
		Generation by Enumeration of all Convex Polygons
		Generation by Enumeration of all Simple Polygons
		Generation by Mitchell Algorithm for Convex Polygons
		Count Convex Polygons Mitchell Algorithm
		Count Convex K-gons Mitchell Algorithm
		Count Convex Polygons Improved Mitchell Algorithm
		Number of random points to be generated
		Alpha specifies minimum length of combination to be processed (default 3)
	
	Polygon-Hull Generation Parameters
		Unit square method
			Basic hull method. Generate a set of random points
 			in the unit square and find the convex hull.
		Convex stable sets method
			Isotropic convex-stable sets. Based on Molchanov and Stoyan:
			"Statistical Models of Random Polyhedra."
			Commun. Statist.-Stochastic Models, 12(2) 199-214 (1996).
		Random disc method
			Circle hull method. Generate set of random points and
			generate random circle to select subset for forming hull.
			Variation of convex hulls of a finite number of points per
			Molchanov and Stoyan, "Statistical Models of Random Polyhedra."
			Commun. Statist.-Stochastic Models, 12(2) 199-214 (1996)
		Unit disc method
			Alternate circle method.			
		Incremental convex method
			Incremental hull method. Generate random triangle.
			Successivley pick a random edge and replace with a new
			convex vertex and edges until required size reached.
		Number of random points to be generated
		Alpha factor for convex stable sets method
	
	Polygon-Cell Generation Parameters
		Uniform distribution for cell growth selection
		Exponential distribution for cell growth selection
		Mixed uniform and exponential distribution for cell growth selection
		Cell row size

	Polygon-Monotone Generation Parameters
		Randomize number of vertices check box
		Maximum number of vertices to be generated
			
	Polygon-Star Generation Parameters
		Uniform angle distribution
		Exponential angle distribution
		Markov angle distribution (MMPP)
		Uniform radius distribution
		Exponential radius distribution
		Smooth1 radius
		Smooth2 radius
		Number of vertices to be generated
		Density for Markov, MMPP option
		Smooth_factor for Smooth1 option
		Radial expansion rate for smoothing
		Markov_parameter for Smooth2 option		
	
	Polygon-Spiral Generation Parameters
		Bounded check box - successful only for approximately 8 vertices or less
		Hash check box - robust generation
		Randomize # check box - randomize number of vertices
		Number of vertices to be generated
		Radial expansion rate
			 
	Polygon-Draw Generation Parameters
		Number of vertices to be entered.
		(Place cursor on point and click to enter vertices.)
			
	Polygon-Test Generation Parameters
		Hull - generates a predefined polygon
		Square - generates the unit square boundary
		
	Rectangle Generation Parameters
		Corners button - rectangles defined by coordinates
			of lower left and upper right corner vertices
		Center/Extents button - rectangles defined by coordinates
			of center and width and height extent lengths
		Corner/Extents - rectangles defined by coordinates
			of lower left corner and width and height extent lengths
		Force button adjusts randomly generated vertices to constrain the location
			of the rectangle to within the unit square
		Wrap button wraps portion of the generated rectangle outside of the unit square
			to the opposite within the opposite side
		Minimum Side Length - lower bound on side length
		Maximum Side Length - uppoer bound on side length
		 
	Ellipse/Circle Generation Parameters
		Circle button - selects circle generation
		Ellipse button - selects ellipse generation
		Offset button - moves the generated circle or ellipse
			to be within the unit square
		Trim button - reduces the size of the generated circle or ellipse
			to bit within the unit square
		Minimum Length - lower bound for radii length
		Maximum Length - upper bound for radii length			
		
2.7. PolyMaps
	PolyMap-Cell Generation Parameters
		Uniform - selects uniform distribution for randomized cell growth
		Exponential- selects exponential distribution for randomized cell growth
		Mixed - selects randomly mixed uniform and exponential distribution
			for randomized cell growth
		Number of polygons to be created in the cell polymap
		Cell row size - number of cells in row/column of polymap square
	
	PolyMap-Poisson Generation Parameters
		Alpha factor randomizes the number of lines created per generation. 
			Used when number of points (lines) is set at zero and then  
			number of lines is random.poisson(number_of_generations, 4*alpha).
		Number of points determines the number of lines in the Poisson line field to be generatied
		
	PolyMap-PolyLine Generation Parameters
		Randomize button selects randomizing then number of lines to be generated
		Number of lines specifies the number (or if randomized the maximum number) of lines to be generated
	
	PolyMap-Voronoi Generation Parameters
		Uniform button specifies use of a uniform distribution for generating the sites
		Normal button specifies use of a normal distribution for generating the sites
		Poisson button specifies use of a non-stationary MMPP process for generating the sites
		Number of points specifies the number of sites to be generated
		Number of clusters specifies for the normal distribution option the number of site clusters to be generated
		Standard deviation specifies for the normal distribution the standard deviation to be used
		Density specifies for the Poisson option the density parameter  
		
10. Result Options
	Object Selector - allows paging thru current group of objects
	Scale - allows scaling the displayed figure
	Clicking the cursor in the display figure locates the display center to that point

	File Menu
		Save Group - Save data for the whole group of objects
		Save Object - Save data for the current object
		Print - Print image of the current object
		Properties - Display generation parameters 
		Close - Close current displayed set of objects
		
	Result Selection Boxes
		Draw3D Format check box - sets save data format for Draw3D input
		Save Group - Save data for the whole group of objects (same as Result File Menu option)
		Save Object - Save data for the current object (same as Result File Menu option)
		Print - Print image of the current object (same as Result File Menu option)
		Jpeg - Save current object as Jpeg image
		Clear - Clear displayed result of triangulation or convex hull actions
		
	Result Action Menu
		Group Metrics (Example output shown below)
		
			Timestamp: Oct 25, 2020
			Seed: 1635422865
			# Polygons: 5.00 # Points: 20.0 
	
			Total # vertices: 100.00
			Mean # vertices: 20.00
			Min # vertices: 20.00
			Max #vertices: 20.00 
			
			Std # vertices: 0.00
			Var # vertices: 0.00
			Chi2 vertices: 98.00
			Chi2 inner vertices: 63.1404
			Chi2 non-corner vertices: 95.9032 
			
			Total area: 2.2013
			Mean area: 0.4403
			Min area: 0.2992
			Max area: 0.5116
			Std area: 0.0833
			Var area: 0.0069 
			
			Total perimeter: 24.7486
			Mean perimeter: 4.9497
			Min perimeter: 4.324
			Max perimeter: 5.6958
			Std perimeter: 0.5595
			Var perimeter: 0.313 
			
			Total complexity: 1.7384
			Mean complexity: 0.3477
			Min complexity: 0.2423
			Max complexity: 0.4208 
			Std complexity: 0.0747
			Var complexity: 0.0056 
			
			Total compacity: 3.8401
			Mean compacity: 0.768
			Min compacity: 0.6562
			Max compacity: 0.8298 
			Std compacity: 0.0704 
			Var compacity: 0.005 
			
			Total simplexity: 0.00 
			Mean simplexity: 0.00 
			Min simplexity: 0.2423 
			Max simplexity: 0.4208 
			Std simplexity: 0.00
			Var simplexity: 0.00 
		
		Object Metrics (Example output shown below)
		
			Timestamp: Oct 25, 2020
			# vertices: 20
			convex: false
			ccw: true
			cg: (0.50197. 0.37152)
			area: 0.30
			hullArea: 0.50
			areaRatio: 0.60
			perimeter: 4.70
			hullPerimeter: 2.85
			perRatio: 0.61
			# notches: 8.00
			frequencey: .99
			amplitude: 0.39
			convexity: 0.40
			compacity: 0.83
			simplexity: 0.00
		
		Convex Hull - Find and display convex hull
		Triangulate - Triangulate polygon and display
		Scale to Unit Square - Scale the current figure to the unit square
		Polar Diagram - Find and display polar diagram for the current polygon
		
	